---
title: ffmpeg
author: Tristan Madden
categories: [CMD, ffmpeg]
tags: [audio, video]
date: 2022-01-27
---
ffmpeg is a complete, cross-platform solution to record, convert and stream audio and video.
<h2><a href="https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html#build-windows">ffmpeg Download</a></h2>
<h2><a href="https://ffmpeg.org/ffmpeg.html">ffmpeg Documentation
</a></h2>
<h2>Audio Processing</h2>
<h3>Convert to 8kHz, single-channel PCM</h3>
```console
ffmpeg -i "input.mp3" -ar 8000 -ac 1 output.wav
```
<h3>Convert to 16kHz, single-channel PCM</h3>
```console
ffmpeg -i "input.mp3" -ar 16000 -ac 1 output.wav
```
<h3>Convert to 48kHz, single-channel PCM</h3>
```console
ffmpeg -i input.mp3 -ar 48000 -ac 1 output.wav
```
<h2>Video Processing</h2>
<h3>Add Music to a Video</h3>
```console
ffmpeg -i video.mp4 -i music.mp3 -codec copy -shortest output.mp4
```

-i video.mp4
: Select “video.mp4” as an input file from the same directory.

-i music.mp3
: Select “music.mp4” as an input file from the same directory.

-codec copy
: Specifies that we are not re-encoding anything.

-shortest
: Use this flag if the video length is shorter than the audio length. Otherwise, use no flag at all here.

<h3>Assemble images into a video</h3>
```console
ffmpeg -framerate 60 -s 2560x1440 -i %04d.png output.mp4
```

-framerate 60
: Set the frame rate to 60FPS.

-s 2560x1440
: Set the video resolution to 2560x1440 pixels.

-i %04d.png
: This flag assumes there is a folder of .png files in the same directory named in the format 0001.png, 0002.png, etc. It will load all images following this naming convention as inputs to be processed.

<h3>Re-encode Video For YouTube</h3>
```console
ffmpeg -i transition.mp4 -c:v libx264 -preset slow -crf 18 -c:a copy -pix_fmt yuv420p transition.mkv
```

-i transition.mp4
: Select "transition.mp4" as the input file.

-c:v libx264
: set the video codec to H.264

-preset slow
: A preset is a collection of options that will provide a certain encoding speed to compression ratio. A slower preset will provide better compression (compression is quality per filesize). This means that, for example, if you target a certain file size or constant bit rate, you will achieve better quality with a slower preset. Similarly, for constant quality encoding, you will simply save bitrate by choosing a slower preset. Use the slowest preset that you have patience for. The available presets in descending order of speed are:
- ultrafast
- superfast
- veryfast
- faster
- fast
- medium (default preset)
- slow
- slower
- veryslow

-crf 18
: Constant Rate Factor (CRF). The range of the CRF scale is 0–51, where 0 is lossless, 23 is the default, and 51 is worst quality possible. A lower value generally leads to higher quality, and a subjectively sane range is 17–28. Consider 17 or 18 to be visually lossless or nearly so; it should look the same or nearly the same as the input but it isn't technically lossless.

-c:a copy
: Copy the audio codec from that of the input file to the output file

-pix_fmt yuv420p
: This flag is only needed for your output to work in QuickTime, Windows Media player and other offline media players. These players only support the YUV planar color space with 4:2:0 chroma subsampling for H.264 video. Otherwise, depending on your source, ffmpeg may output to a pixel format that may be incompatible with these players.

<h2>Image Processing</h2>

<h3>Create an animated GIF from a video</h3>
```console
ffmpeg -i transition.mp4 -c:v libx264 -preset slow -crf 18 -c:a copy -pix_fmt yuv420p
```
<h3>Assembled a folder of images into an animated GIF</h3>
The file size of an animated GIF can be minimized by first generating a color palette.
```console
ffmpeg -y -i %3d.png -vf palettegen palette.png
```
```console
ffmpeg -y -f image2 -framerate 60 -i %3d.png -i palette.png -filter_complex paletteuse file.gif
```